# SSCP-wait-time-_DHS_CAOE
Airport passenger dwell time cost benefit analysis research. Department of Homeland Security (DHS), Centre for Accelerating Operational Efficiency (CAOE), University of Arizona, University of Texas at Arlington (In Progress)

Establishing a data driven analysis of how the different factors related to aircrafts, airports, etc affect SSCP wait times. All the factors that will be deemed necessary comes from mining and analyzing multiple relevant datasets belonging to airports and airlines.
By taking a closer look at the data we see that there is a positive correlation between flight delays and the average dwell time of passengers in airports. Therefore, all the factors that contribute to greater flight delays would now also count as factors responsible for increase in the average dwell time of passengers in airports. Some of these factors may involve issues like unforeseen technical issues in aircraft (there might be a correlation with the age of the aircraft), random influence of hostile weather conditions, due to which flights get lower approval rates for take-off and landing which in turn has a cascading effect on multiple flights. Also, the effect is also suspected to have been greater when the seating capacity of the aircraft is larger. Larger seating capacity would mean a greater number of passengers, so such airline companies operating those types of flights can appropriately coordinate with the respective airport authorities and better manage the transiting passengers. There are also data points on the possible link between flight delays and the time of the year it is.
 
Once we have identified all the possible list of factors, then we would attempt to build a predictive model from some given parameters like the time of the year it is, the airports that the flight is flying to and from, the actual delay time, the airliner company, the possible reason for the delay, etc. This would be done using Machine Learning and its purpose would be to predict whether a flight would be delayed or not. The results of this model can then be appropriated for drawing parallels with the equivalent peak dwell time for passengers and further on, passengers can be notified if there is a significant change in their required time of arrival at the airport. 
